Restructure the top-level README to make the order of steps clearer. (#140)
opendatahub-io/ai-edge: README.md

## Proof of Concept Edge use case with ACM

The main objective is to showcase that a user can take a trained model,
use pipelines to package it with all the dependencies into a container image,
and deploy it at the near edge location(s) (represented by ACM-managed clusters) in a centralized way.

### Developing and training a model

This step is out of scope of this Proof of Concept repository,
as this repository already contains trained models in the [pipelines/models/](pipelines/models/) directory.

If you wish to develop and train different models,
Jupyter notebooks provided by [Open Data Hub](https://opendatahub.io/) (ODH)
or [Red Hat OpenShift Data Science](https://www.redhat.com/en/technologies/cloud-computing/openshift/openshift-data-science) (RHODS) can be used.
To install ODH or RHODS operators, admin privileges in the OpenShift cluster are needed.

Working and deploying your own models might require bigger changes
to the definition and configuration of the pipelines and ACM setup below,
so you might want to start with the pre-built models first.

> ### Building container image with model and serving runtime

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Building container image(s) with a model and serving runtime
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

In [pipelines/README.md](pipelines/README.md) we show how to take the trained models,
store them in a S3 bucket,
build container image(s) with the model and serving runtime using OpenShift Pipelines,
push the container image(s) to an image registry accessible by the near edge cluster(s),
and update a clone of this repository with a pull request,
configuring `acm/odh-edge/apps/*/kustomization.yaml` with location and digest (SHA-256) of the built images.

You can skip this step if you do not wish to rebuild the container images.
If you use the default configuration as shown in this git repository,
you will use already built container images from the https://quay.io/organization/rhoai-edge repositories.

### Serving to near edge remote clusters

> We assume that you have an admin access to an OpenShift cluster where you can install and configure
> the Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management operator and which will serve as the central ACM hub,
> and other OpenShift cluster(s) with admin privileges that you will import to the ACM hub cluster
> and that will play the role of near edge location(s), managed from the central ACM hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We assume that you have admin access to an OpenShift cluster where you can install and configure
the Red Hat Advanced Cluster Management operator and which will serve as the central ACM hub.
We also assume you have admin access to other OpenShift cluster(s) that you will import to the ACM hub cluster, these will play the role of near edge location(s) managed from the central ACM hub.
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

#### ACM setup

The following setup steps need to be done as an admin user with `cluster-admins` privileges.

> We will describe how to do them using OpenShift Console but there may be other ways to achieve the same results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will describe how to do them using the OpenShift Console but there may be other ways to achieve the same results.
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

1. On the ACM hub cluster, install the Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes operator.

>    In OpenShift Console of the cluster, find and run the installation of the operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In the OpenShift Console of the cluster, find and install the operator
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

   in Menu > Operators > OperatorHub.
1. Create the MultiClusterHub.

>    In OpenShift Console in Menu > Operators > Installed Operators > Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes >

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In the OpenShift Console in Menu > Operators > Installed Operators > Advanced Cluster Management for Kubernetes >
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

>    the MultiClusterHub tab, use the "Create MultiClusterHub" button to start the installation.

Reviewer: Is "installation" the correct term here?

Author: Good point, updating to "to create its configuration".

> 1. Refresh the Web OpenShift Console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Refresh the OpenShift Console page.
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

1. Create a cluster set for your near edge clusters.

>    In OpenShift Console it can be done in All Clusters menu > Infrastructure > Clusters > Cluster sets tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In the OpenShift Console this can be done in All Clusters menu > Infrastructure > Clusters > Cluster sets tab.
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

>    This repository assumes name `poc-near-edge` in `clusterSets`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This repository assumes the name `poc-near-edge` is used in `clusterSets`
```

Author: I'm not sure about this -- this repository *has* `poc-near-edge`  in `clusterSets`, so it assumes that you created the cluster set with that name.

>    in [acm/registration/near-edge/base/near-edge.yaml](acm/registration/near-edge/base/near-edge.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   to match [`acm/registration/near-edge/base/near-edge.yaml`](acm/registration/near-edge/base/near-edge.yaml)
```

Author: Dtto, the assumption is the other way round. We assume in `near-edge.yaml` that this is the value that the admin has set up in theri ACM hub.

>    so update that YAML file if you use different name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   so update that YAML file if you use a different name.
```

1. Import the near edge cluster(s).

>    In OpenShift Console it can be done in All Clusters menu > Infrastructure > Clusters > Cluster list tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In the OpenShift Console this can be done in All Clusters menu > Infrastructure > Clusters > Cluster list tab.
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

   In the Cluster set popup menu, select the cluster set you created for the near edge clusters.
   If you use the Import mode of "Enter your server URL and API token for the existing cluster",
   obtain the address of the server and the token on the other cluster's OpenShift Console 
   at the top-right corner user menu > Copy login command, for an admin user.

#### Create namespaces for applications

> For each of the deployed models-turned-into-application, we will create separate namespace/project on the ACM hub cluster.

Reviewer: > "models-turned-into-application"

Are you sure this is a good term to use?

```suggestion
For each of the deployed models-turned-into-application, we will create separate namespace(s)/project(s) on the ACM hub cluster.
```

Author: > > "models-turned-into-application"
> Are you sure this is a good term to use?

Well, the application term is overloaded and has a lot of specific meanings in the ACM world, so I wanted something to express that I talk about our specific instances.

What would you suggest instead?

Author: As for the plurals, isn't the point here that for each application, there is one namespace (project)?

The ACM setup in this repository expects namespaces `tensorflow-housing-app` and `bike-rental-app`.

> As a regular user in OpenShift Console, in the local-cluster > Developer menu, Project popup, use the "Create Project" button;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a regular user in the OpenShift Console, in the local-cluster > Developer menu, Project popup, use the "Create Project" button;
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

alternatively, run
```bash
oc new-project tensorflow-housing-app
oc new-project bike-rental-app

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

#### Bind namespaces to the cluster set

> The newly created namespaces need to be bound the cluster set with the near edge clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The newly created namespaces need to be bound to the cluster set containing the near edge clusters.
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

> On the ACM hub cluster, in OpenShift Console in the All Clusters menu > Infrastructure > Clusters > Cluster sets tab,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the ACM hub cluster, in the OpenShift Console in the All Clusters menu > Infrastructure > Clusters > Cluster sets tab,
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

click the three-dot button at the right of the cluster set, select Edit namespace bindings, and add the namespaces you've created.

This is the last step that needs to be done as an admin user with `cluster-admins` privileges.

#### Deploy the applications to remote clusters

> With the remote near edge clusters in the cluster set and the cluster set bound to the application namespaces,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the remote near edge clusters now in the cluster set and that cluster set bound to the application namespaces,
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

it is now possible to deploy the applications to remote clusters through

> ACM Channels, Subscriptions, Placements, and Applications.

Reviewer: Maybe include links here?

Author: Will do ... but https://access.redhat.com/documentation/ does not seem to support `/latest/` in the URLs, so I will have to hradcode `/2.8/` which might become a maintenance burden, updating it to the latest versions as they keep getting released.

Author: Links added in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

We will create the objects in the respective namespaces from the `acm/registration/` directory structure.

However, it is important to note that the actual application configuration, stored in `acm/odh-edge/`,
does not come from our local git repository checkout.

> Instead, [acm/registration/near-edge/overlays/tensorflow-housing-app/kustomization.yaml](acm/registration/near-edge/overlays/tensorflow-housing-app/kustomization.yamlacm/registration/near-edge/overlays/tensorflow-housing-app/kustomization.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, [`acm/registration/near-edge/overlays/tensorflow-housing-app/kustomization.yaml`](acm/registration/near-edge/overlays/tensorflow-housing-app/kustomization.yamlacm/registration/near-edge/overlays/tensorflow-housing-app/kustomization.yaml)
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

> and [acm/registration/near-edge/overlays/bike-rental-app/kustomization.yaml](acm/registration/near-edge/overlays/bike-rental-app/kustomization.yaml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and [`acm/registration/near-edge/overlays/bike-rental-app/kustomization.yaml`](acm/registration/near-edge/overlays/bike-rental-app/kustomization.yaml)
```

> contain URLs of the git repositories that will become configurations of the ACM Channels,

Reviewer: This sentence is confusing.
```suggestion
contain source URLs of the git repositories that will become configurations of the ACM Channels,
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

Author: My goal was to say -- "it does not matter what you have in your checkout in front of you in `acm/odh-edge/`, that's not what will be used.

> and the applications will be deployed from those remote git repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the applications will be deployed using code from those remote git repositories.
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

Even if I might prefer "applications *from* those remote git repos ...".

By default, [github.com/opendatahub-io/ai-edge](https://github.com/opendatahub-io/ai-edge) is configured;
edit the URLs to match your repositories.

Then run as a regular (non-admin) user
```bash
oc apply -k acm/registration/
```

> #### View the application deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### View the application deployments
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

> In the OpenShift Console of the ACM hub cluster in the All Clusters > Applications, filter for Subscriptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the OpenShift Console of the ACM hub cluster in All Clusters > Applications, filter for Subscriptions.
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

> You should see `tensorflow-housing-app-application` and `bike-rental-app-application` with Git resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see `tensorflow-housing-app-application` and `bike-rental-app-application` with Git resources.
```

Author: Applied in 49aadf7f7022a32884be3d91d13200f348ad82ab.

## Proof of Concept Edge use case with ACM

> The main objective is to showcase that a user can take a trained model,

Author: No. I'm freestyling it. :-)

I've long time ago given up on having my terminals and thus my `vi` at 80 characters, so I'm typically on 120 or so.

   If you use the Import mode of "Enter your server URL and API token for the existing cluster",
   obtain the address of the server and the token on the other cluster's OpenShift Console 
   at the top-right corner user menu > Copy login command, for an admin user.

#### Create namespaces for applications

For each of the deployed models-turned-into-application, we will create separate namespace/project on the ACM hub cluster.
The ACM setup in this repository expects namespaces `tensorflow-housing-app` and `bike-rental-app`.

As a regular user in the OpenShift Console, in the local-cluster > Developer menu, Project popup, use the "Create Project" button;
alternatively, run
```bash
oc new-project tensorflow-housing-app
oc new-project bike-rental-app
```

#### Bind namespaces to the cluster set

The newly created namespaces need to be bound to the cluster set that contains the near edge clusters.

On the ACM hub cluster, in the OpenShift Console in the All Clusters menu > Infrastructure > Clusters > Cluster sets tab,
click the three-dot button at the right of the cluster set, select Edit namespace bindings, and add the namespaces you've created.

> This is the last step that needs to be done as an admin user with `cluster-admins` privileges.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is the last step that needs to be done as an admin user with `cluster-admin` privileges.
```

Author: Applied in 171844e691d75ec81b322b98817751b7dd7097a6.

#### Deploy the applications to remote clusters

With the remote near edge clusters now in the cluster set and that cluster set bound to the application namespaces,
it is now possible to deploy the applications to remote clusters through
ACM [Channels](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.8/html-single/applications/index#channels),
[Subscriptions](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.8/html-single/applications/index#subscriptions),
[Placements](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.8/html-single/applications/index#placement-rules),
and [Applications](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_advanced_cluster_management_for_kubernetes/2.8/html-single/applications/index#applications).

We will create the objects in the respective namespaces from the `acm/registration/` directory structure.

However, it is important to note that the actual application configuration, stored in `acm/odh-edge/`,
does not come from our local git repository checkout.

> Instead, [`acm/registration/near-edge/overlays/tensorflow-housing-app/kustomization.yaml`](acm/registration/near-edge/overlays/tensorflow-housing-app/kustomization.yamlacm/registration/near-edge/overlays/tensorflow-housing-app/kustomization.yaml)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, [`acm/registration/near-edge/overlays/tensorflow-housing-app/kustomization.yaml`](acm/registration/near-edge/overlays/tensorflow-housing-app/kustomization.yaml)
```

Author: Ouch. Applied in 171844e691d75ec81b322b98817751b7dd7097a6.
